Who am I? What am I? I feel like I gain new insights into the answers to these questions every day. The answer also changes depending on who I am talking to. That's natural though, and true for all of us. But that's what makes social media so weird. 

It's as if we are being forced now to take something which is normally flexible and fluid, a work in progress, spontaneously defined... and petrify it. Nail it down, fix it, cement it, make a permanent representation of something not completely understood about ourselves by anyone, and put it up on a "wall" for everyone else to evaluate. We are creating a culture of spectacle, in which our vanity and insecurity are the directors and we are the performers. 

How can we be expected to ever create a truly accurate representation of ourselves? And why would we want to anyway? It's weird to have all of these online identities, which can only ever capture a tiny fagment of the whole picture of ourselves, but are also frozen in time. Permanent snapshots of an incomplete picture, subject to the various interpretations and judgements of complete strangers. How does it benefit us? It doesn't -- we are the product. But everyone does it man, especially the cool kids. So it's odd not to. It's as if you have something to hide if you don't whore your data out to facebook, and twitter, and tumblr, and instagram, and, and, and.... 

When did a tool for communication become less about communicating more about posing for the all seeing eye of the internet? It's only been a decade or so since we've had social media. Never before have we been all but forced to upload pictures of ourselves, use our real legal names (fuck you facebook) and spend so much time posturing and for an indefinite asynchronous audience. There are so many differing opinions about privacy and social media, but I think society at large is still struggling to understand what it all means. 

I see that social media has its uses for certain people, networking, branding, etc. Mostly I think it's an amazing tool for companies to harvest sellable user data, but for end users it's an insane waste of time. I've tried to give it a chance, but I just can't stand twitter. I feel no need to tweet (it isn't even rewarding), and hate being constantly distracted by trivia. I'm not satisfied with superficial online interaction as a substitute for substantial and meaningful connection with people who actually matter in my life. If social media is a tool, then it needs to stay in the toolbox until I am ready to use it. Imagine you had a hammer that was constantly nagging you, "hey! go hammer something! let's bang that nail! now tell all your friends you just banged a nail! don't forget to take a selfie while you do it!" Yet here we are. 

